everyone welcome back to another episode
of ask GN sorry I'm not doing the intro
with snowflake for this one we're flying
to Taiwan and we need to get this done
immediately this is the series where we
take viewer questions and try to answer
them to the best of our abilities you
can leave your questions in the comment
section below but I have a specific
request for the types of questions for
this one we'll talk about that in a
second and as a separate note if you do
want to see your dose of snowflake the
cap for this week you can check out our
cute pet
yes tin case review for that so this is
episode I think 112 we've got some
really good ones here like for example
what does it and II need to do to
compete effectively or continue to
compete effectively and a couple of
others about well just general topics
but andis a hot topic for this one we
had Intel as a hot topic for the last
one so figured we'd balance it out a bit
before that this video is brought to you
by Thermal Grizzlies conduct a not
liquid metal conductor not as what we've
used in all of our liquid metal and deal
it thermal tests capable of dropping TP
thermals significantly and replacing the
stock thermal interface lower CPU
thermals don't just allow better
overclocks but also lower noise levels
because the transfer efficiency is
increased the mix of gallium and indium
makes for a thermal conductivity of 73
watts per meter Kelvin outclassing
traditional pastes significantly learn
more at the link in the description
below alright so before starting this
one the types of questions we'd like to
see from you we have a lot of
opportunities to talk to some extremely
knowledgeable people in the industry
while we're in Taiwan for the next
couple of weeks we're going to publish
this right around when our trip start
and what we'd like from you is a few
different things we want to film a
special ask GN episode in Taiwan and not
sure the exact format yet depends the
questions but one option B ask an
overclocker we're going to be speaking
with kingpin from EVGA he's basically
one of the world's top overclockers his
name is on the kingdom PCBs so you've
got a lot of really good opportunities
to ask really good questions of him that
I can't answer so think about it think
pretty hard about what you want to know
and leave your questions below please if
you if you don't have a question just do
me a favor read them and upvote the best
ones because that'll help us filter when
we're when we're traveling and then
separately we're all
talking with high cookies so he's
another overclocker we might get a
chance to talk to some others but
definitely kingpin and hi cookie
extremely good overclockers very
knowledgeable if you have more advanced
questions about the overclocking process
please leave them below we'll pass them
on another opportunity for you all this
is very much a viewer engagement segment
so we'd like to put them out and you
know the options in front of you another
opportunity is we're going to be
visiting a lot of markets and market
vendors if you have questions about just
computer hardware prices availability
used market stuff as it pertains to
Taiwan or Asia in general if you're
maybe in the US and you're just
wondering about how if if it's different
there how things work whatever leave
those questions below as well and then
we can gather information about that
stuff and lots of like I said anything
you can think of relating to speaking
with experts in the industry at the
source of manufacturing which would be
mostly Taiwan and China for
manufacturing sources this is a good
opportunity to ask those questions so
leave them below and we'll do a special
ask yet and Taiwan I get some of those
people on camera but in the very least I
can ask them off-camera and then present
the answers step one last note - we were
going to have so we've got the patreon
page patreon.com/lenguin access has a
bonus ask jian episode on it that's only
available to patreon backers it's just
an extra thanks for supporting us it
helps us fund things like our trip which
looks like now
but if run the numbers it's gonna cost
us around 20 grand or so maybe a bit
under but somewhere in that range so you
can go to patreon.com/scishow can access
get the bonus ask TM there and then
finally on the GM Steve secondary
channel we're going to have a bonus
public public bonus episode just to
address the questions about the bike
frames on my wall and the previous one
okay enough of all the intro for that
we've had timestamps up so you could
have skipped a few wanted I guess but
let's talk about the first one YouTube
comments from their Bower from the last
one said hahaha
that GTR burn and old video usage not
bad Steve not bad well I'd just like to
point out that Roman for once said not
bad
as opposed to what he normally says
which is not even bad and one time I
said to Roman you know not even bad kind
of implies that you expect it to be bad
but that it's not even that and he said
I know he's a mysterious man all right
next one this is the big one for us so
I've inserted this question on my own
but I think it's an interesting one if I
do say so myself
the reason we inserted this which is
what does Andy need to do to continue to
compete effectively is because in the
last ass yen episode we did or one of
the last two people asked about what
does Intel need to do to come back and
we really talked about that for a long
time so I want to look at the opposite
of and these kind of here now so it's
not what do they need to do to compete
but what do they need to do to keep
competing and not lose their their grasp
that they've renamed so let's talk about
that Andy has obviously extremely good
engineering foundations at this point
they're very stable with Xen they're in
a good spot they've lost some engineers
to other companies over the past couple
of years so some of the original Xen one
architects or engineers have moved on to
other companies is a normal part of the
process and a lot of these people I mean
it's it's a really really narrow field
in terms of your experts who are
available and so it's common for them to
kind of move around between companies as
projects start and end especially for
the people who are more focused on the
challenge of it than anything else and
so that will affect things but in the
very least and these in a good enough
spot now and they have enough cash flow
now which wasn't always the case that it
can find the right people hopefully to
continue things on the engineering front
so engineering is in a good spot the
biggest potential for a blunder at this
point would be in marketing and the it's
at this point it's not about as much not
as much about gaining recognition or or
gaining respect or gaining trust which
was a big one where people with I was
that one launch and all the motherboards
and other issues they had with those for
a long time after that even once the
issue started getting resolved you'd see
comments of well I'd recommend Rison for
my friend
they're not tactical and I just Intel's
more stable or Intel's more reliable or
Intel's not gonna have BIOS issues or
whatever so Andy's worked really hard to
try and gain some trust there and that's
the that's the most difficult thing that
had to do was get community trust that
yes the performance is good but is this
platform going to screw me over somehow
in a way I don't know kind of like what
was happening with the navi cards for a
while and might still be we haven't
looked into the newest drivers but so
the biggest way they can stab themselves
in the back at this point is marketing
because that engineering is good Andy
needs to dial back its marketing claims
in some ways in our opinion it got
railed over PBO and auto aussi for
claiming numbers like four point seven
five gigahertz which were effectively
impossible to achieve with the means
that were presented and marketed and the
in the past has gotten a lot of underdog
allowances like an underdog card it
could pull over the past years but as it
begins and continues to surpass Intel
and the spotlight that underdog card
it's not always going to work you won't
always be there people aren't going to
be as willing to overlook miss marketed
at numbers as AMD takes the spotlight
this for a few reasons but one of them
is that you're giving people fewer
things to look at and focus on and when
people can focus on you know in general
in the news or the reviews world what
you kind of learn as on our side of
things is that the community really only
has the capacity as a mob as a unit
collectively to sort of narrow in on a
couple of points and while individuals
might be able to look at the greater
picture as a community as a mob
mentality really only a couple things at
a time can exist at once and then it'll
sort of subside and some new item will
come in and take its place and with AMD
when it was getting back into this it's
always just the story was primarily
focused first and foremost on look at
this actually really competitive part
good price doesn't overclock as well but
you know who cares it's it's good pretty
good out of the box that was the story
and although there were things that were
miss marketed and they were covered -
like we did talk about for example PPO
we did a whole big thing on it it wasn't
the
primary part of coverage especially not
ours we were so focused on the positive
side of the story which is the parts are
good that the negative side of the story
although it got covered Janet got a lot
of views it doesn't get anywhere near
the amount of traction no matter how
much we care as the positive side does
and that's because it's overwhelmingly
positive but as I am these begins to or
continues to roll forward and benefits
from being in a position where people
aren't as easily excited about its gains
anymore or its launches anymore because
perhaps at some point the the novelty
wears off or at least the we need
competition wears off and it's like okay
this is just this is just how it is now
they're just better if that the the
benefit of being able to beat down the
competition wears off and suddenly and
these only competing against itself
which was sort of true for his m3 but it
still had enough excitement behind it
then Andy's going to be in a spot where
people will begin looking for things to
pick apart and those things would be
marketing and it means that there's less
of a positive story or less of this new
exciting competitive angle of things to
bring up in surface in conversation and
comment sections and wherever and
there's there's more space or more
airtime for people to talk about what
might have gone poorly or been miss
marketed or whatever so we think that
Andy at this point it's in a good spot
but it needs to be really careful about
its marketing it needs to focus on to
quote a contact of ours in the industry
it needs to focus on just winning just
win and you don't need to win by a lot
you don't need to lie to win just get
there just stay ahead so that's what I
am Dean needs to do focus on the
hardware make sure the hardware is good
tell the story about the hardware as it
is factually accurate and and easily
proven and you know if there's something
that you think is true but you're not
quite sure or maybe tech marketing
didn't really understand what
engineering was saying they miss
marketed it just to stop just let it let
it rest
don't push it forward and if it turns
out that this feature you thought was
going to be amazing but you guys weren't
sure about speaking to Andy then let the
press or the community discover it and
let that be the positive story rather
than
the inverse which is market something
that might end up not being true and
then you have a huge negative story so
that's what we think
AMD needs to do to continue to compete
effectively is be careful of its
marketing that's the biggest way and the
have stabs itself in the back in the
past it's hardware is good so keep
pushing with the hardware now another
thing on the market side of things Andy
has told us that it needs to get into
the hands of more OEMs or more system
integrators and they've done a really
good job at that this year they're still
pretty they're lacking representation
overall in the sort of the pre-built
market especially as marketed to non
enthusiasts people who don't know who we
are
might not even know who Linus is to give
you an idea of who I'm talking about
so that's the audience and the that it
has told us by there this isn't my
speculation that Andy needs to go for
next they need to work with OEMs and
kind of push past marketing Development
Fund that Intel has allocated by the way
Andy does that too but until it's a
whole lot more money and that's where
they need to start pushing outside of
the marketing is is focusing on more OEM
spread and they've done a good job of
starting that but there's still a lot to
be desired in OAM availability and
that's really a lot of that same with
retail education you'd call it education
of Best Buy employees for example who
don't you go into a Best Buy store and
ask about computers and a lot of them
still don't really know anything about
AMD that's not really necessarily the
employees fault because it comes down to
what have they been trained on and
Andy's training it's just it's not quite
as good for retail as Intel's has been
and that's because again and tell us a
lot of money they can spend money on
this they can fly people out to seminars
and host events and do on hand or on
site hands-on training and Andy will
struggle to compete as well there
because it's a money problem but it's
getting a spot where you can start doing
it so at this point it's not just
engineering it's it's not just marketing
even and it's about maintaining goodwill
and it's about how the fastest way to
lose goodwill is to misrepresent the
product so Andy really needs someone
knowing people at the company and you
really need someone to sit between
engineers and marketing and technical
marketing and properly push back and say
wait a minute marketing is that true
prove it and that's that's where we
think they need to be another point too
I'll bring up is that we'd like to see I
don't know if this is a and AMD needs to
do this to compete but it will certainly
help if Andy can continue to bring its
older products down in price as they age
like it's been doing that's been Intel's
weakest point over the years is that it
lets the old product stagnate at the
same price whereas AMD in a more
desperate position originally and even
still relatively moneda to bring down
its pricing and the upside of that is
even though their margin goes down on
older stuff like 1600 the sales volume
goes up and so people who don't have a
lot of money and who are looking at an
option of I can buy a used Intel CPU or
even a new one for insane markup or I
could basically build an AMD system at
half the original cost because the Zen
one stuff is so cheap now so Andy needs
to keep sort of flooding the market at
the low end with its older architectures
that people aren't as excited about
anymore because they're still good and
they're still competitive and because of
Andy's chiclet approach it can afford to
cut its margins and still make money on
a cheap $85 1,600 am that's a great way
to flood the low end and start building
that trust that we talked about
originally that those users don't have
because they've used Intel for a decade
and they when they built a computer last
they knew that Intel had something good
and AMD he had FX or AMD you had blue
screens or whatever am do you had we're
a class-action lawsuit so flooding the
lower-end market is a really good
strategy on am these part we'd like to
see that continue but who knows how that
will play out as Intel starts to lose
its position in am that you might need
to not need to do that anymore although
to gain market share rather than just
sales volume per month Andy will need to
do that because Intel still has insane
market share
even though Andy has insane sales volume
per month right now two enthusiasts all
right that's a really one question next
why
that's on video whatever next one Jack
Taylor
this one is from I think YouTube and it
says both oh yeah both Amazon and scan
have the 3950 ax in stock and currently
on disc discount yeah so like half the
comments last time we're in response to
the question of was the 39 50 X 3 970 X
1090 DX II was that a paper launch and I
said yes they were paper launches for
the most part just as a reminder the
words launch means when it came out not
five months later so the people who are
like it's in stock now you've got really
selective memory when it comes to AMD
because when those products launched and
we've got sales data to prove it where
people were paying $1,000 for 39 50 X
because they were getting gouged because
there were no there was no stock when it
first launched it was pretty limited in
inventory
yes there in stock now the word launch
though it doesn't mean every time stock
arrives it means the one time it comes
out anyway that one was super annoying
to weed through Rudy from YouTube says
do for C and D continuing production on
previous generation parts on the
respective manufacturing processes a
process that has already gone down in
price and continued selling those at
discounted prices specifically Zen 2
after Zen 3 is released much like what
happens m+ because the ultra busy all
the Intel out with no discounts at all
on previous gens because production has
stopped this is sort of what I talked
about I'll briefly touch this one again
but it's already happening main reason
and he made the 1600 af to address the
first part of the question is because it
wanted to continue for some reason that
I don't know the production of the r5
1600 and name and the wafer supply for
the r5 1600 was no longer available and
he made everything I had that that
process for and it ran out of the wafers
so in order to continue making that part
which where most companies would
discontinued AMD continued it for
reasons that we don't fully know but
they're probably business related as in
business to business related instead
polled the r5 1600 forward to use on +
architecture and made it effectively an
r5 2600 for crazy
value but with a different name than an
r5 2600 in fact an older name we think
it should have been called something
like a 35 50 or whatever they could have
gotten away with it but that's fine too
so we'd speculate that this is maybe for
some sort of contractual reason maybe
with some big OEM or si they needed an
r5 1600 we're really not sure either way
though the answer to the question of
production is yes they did continue it's
just that it's sort of in a weird way
and that they made it better for cheaper
so it's not really continued but because
it all works on the same platform it
basically is there's not many
deployments where it would actually
matter that you can't buy the old 1600
anymore which is objectively worse than
the 1600 af which is objectively better
and cheaper there's I don't not many of
those that I can think of other than
maybe like some IT world's reasoning
where you're like you're your boss is
like no we need the 1600 because all
these machines have sixteen hundred's in
them and we need to keep using that
can't really think of another reason so
anyway as for whether that'll keep going
it's hard to say we'd imagine AMD would
eventually fall into the potential for
an Intel trap of stagnation as you'd
expect of a market leader once if it
gets there it's it's got a ways to go
it's possible right now it's looking
good for AMD but intel has stuff coming
out too but let's just say and he gets
to a market leadership position by which
we mean the majority of not just sales
but market share too then there's a
chance it could sort of stagnate so
it'll really depend on Intel that point
how hard does Intel push Andy because
Andy is going to be the one that needs
competition to be motivated to keep
pushing and spending as hard as it has
been once it's at the top if it doesn't
need to spend as hard anymore and
Intel's really far behind at some point
you might see a bit of stagnation but
this is obviously that's just I mean
just kind of talk in general terms of
how the market works and it's not really
it's not real points of speculation
anyway though Andy isn't out of the
woods yet still needs motivation to
compete the company isn't so big that it
can just sit on old supply and it has
motivation today to move old units
rather than let them sit permanently in
the channel and so you're gonna see
those price reductions in Tom's been
able to ignore this in the past and just
let old supplies sit and
decay at their last official pricing
because they didn't care
next one is from YouTube this is drama
Steven Gibson who said will GP
performance out scale performance
demanded in games I like this question
by so much that we eventually see X X 50
X X 60 series on video cards able to run
Triple A games at Mac specs or will we
artificially see well we artificially
increased performance demands of GPUs to
play games via high resolution displays
well that's always a thing right you're
talking about maxing graphics you sort
of can do that these days at 1080p with
cards that are at least a name if not in
price lower than they their predecessors
but yeah it's a good question this is
essentially an arms race and we think
that developers will again this is this
is sort of informed opinions from us
it's called Sdn so our opinion of this
at the team is we think that developers
will either scale their games to meet
the capabilities of the new cards which
is typically what we've seen thus
perpetually keeping the pricing stack
and hierarchy relatively undisturbed or
developers will begin to cut corners on
optimization and let Hardware do more
brute forcing because you can I mean you
call it laziness if you want but it's
also just not spending as much money
which is good for them too so either way
it doesn't seem like they'd continue
have the optimization practices while
also allowing graphics quality to stay
where it is today and stagnate they
probably wouldn't be good for the
industry frankly if everything stagnated
the games industry not even just
hardware we're talking games here so
they have plenty of motivation to keep
pushing graphics either through gimmicks
or through actual improvements and one
interesting third party to the table
here is that of game engines this is
I've got a book over there somewhere I
think it's called game engine
architecture or something like that and
it's really interesting but game engines
are really becoming more the center of
things these days than they ever were
it's always been important but as game
engines have consolidated it's really
just a couple of key ones like Unreal
Engine to some extent you still have
Crytek
it's really Unreal Engine and then the
in-house engines for games that have the
annual releases as they consolidate like
that we're seeing engine developers pick
up the roll of some of the optimization
where this is important because there
are people who've spent decades only
optimizing things like shader execution
on hardware and those people are mostly
spread between a few companies Nvidia
Unreal Engine or epic games I should say
and to a lesser extent AMD and Crytek
with AMD probably being the third one in
there so or what's left of Crytek anyway
- so those people are there it's a
narrow skill set as well it's an
important one and as engines are able to
pick up a lot of that slack game
developers don't really have to do as
much of it so it'll just become a
question of the arms race between
pushing graphics and pushing hardware
and we would imagine that they would
pretty much keep going because
everyone's got a vested interest and you
spending more money that's how it works
right so the video card companies want
you to spend more money they don't want
you to sit on their same product for
five years
spoke to logitech about this years and
years ago and one of their
representatives who I won't name for
obvious reasons in a second I said that
they had problems with the Logitech G
five mouths being too good and not
braking enough where their sales
suffered because of it so same thing
with video cards no one at these video
card companies wants to you to sit on
their card from five years ago and the
game developers don't want you playing
there last year's game because the
graphics stagnated and you know the
gameplay is not much different anyway so
everyone's got a vested interest in it
which is why I would answer your
question with yes we will see
performance demands in Greece on the GPU
side to keep taxing them in a way that
they do today cata walks this is on
YouTube it says will you ever bring back
the GM copper cups
I didn't convince myself I needed them
until they weren't available anymore
sorry I'm not sure I'd like to I
definitely like to a few things with
that we've tied up a lot of our money
for product development stuff and other
stuff that's going on right now check
our don't panic or what
I call it video for more information on
sort of how that side of things has been
delayed by human malware but between mod
Matt's new toolkit runs new mouse pads
we have coming out that our desk lengths
and really awesome and a couple of other
things I can't mention yet we are I mean
I'm fully invested I can't I can't spend
more on stuff so I really like the
compromise I want to bring them back
another thing as we need to find a new
supplier because the one we were working
with isn't making it anymore
like they you know we we source up the
supply we make demands of it and then
you just kind of hope that they keep
making the thing so we could potentially
do it but I define another supplier I
could easily do a stainless steel cup
with a copper plating that's trivial but
what we were doing was a full copper cup
with a nickel plating on the inside and
that's difficult so I don't know maybe
I'll do a stainless steel one with
copper plating and do something clever
but I've got some ideas but I don't know
it wouldn't be as it wouldn't be like
the same copper centric approach which
was the coolest thing about it still be
pretty cool though I've got ideas on
funk on youtube says question for the
next to ask GN why does l3 cache keep
increasing but l2 has been stuck at 512
procore since forever
this is a good question and one that I
should reach out to some experts in the
industry on and will try to do when
we're in Taiwan but I'm gonna keep the
short to the best of my understanding
right now today without seeking out some
expert insight on this this is because
the cost of l2 and in both the SRAM cost
and the physical space cost getting
sitting close to the cores and also
because latency is a concern and a point
of consideration for that as well where
you've got you start making sacrifices
on latency but I'm gonna have to leave
my answer kind of vaguely there I
apologize for not having more depth on
that one but we'll have to talk to some
people about that next one discord from
the GM patreon discord grandis bolas
says are the GM toolkits permanently out
of stock or is the new batch coming no
they're not permanently out of stock we
made a couple of cool changes to the
mold
and I'm really excited about it but I
can't talk about it yet I'll give you a
brief bit of info though one of the
things that I wanted to improve was that
we had some single-use plastic bags on
the tool handles to try to protect them
during transit so we made some changes
to the packaging and of the tools and
then up to the the production of the
handles to the mold to eliminate that
plastic bag so we're able to eliminate
ten single-use plastic bags one for each
tool for kit hopefully that's it looks
like it's gonna work so yeah that's why
that's been in that on such a hold is
because engineering a solution around
you know it's I just I don't want a
bunch of disposable one-use plastic in
the product it feels kind of bad and so
we dropped something like eight grand on
molds and worked with the factory doing
tooling and tests and how do we make
this thing so that it doesn't get
damaged in transit because that's the
downside right we could have not used
the bags to begin with but then you end
up with a bunch of products or IV on and
maybe you have a slightly higher defect
rate and now you have to throw the
entire thing away instead of just the
bag away so it's never an easy solution
but anyway that's why they were on on
delay while I was trying to figure out
the the solution to something that I
mean frankly we could have just kept
selling it like that and no one would
have really complained but I didn't like
it so I felt it was wasteful so we're
trying to fix that and yeah they I have
actually as of day of filming within the
next hour I'm going to be seeing the new
sample and then it's just gonna be a
matter of working with the factory to
finalize it that'll take a couple months
to get everything done and in let's see
next one
vernacular youtube comment well Jen ever
do content about small form-factor cases
and components again it may not be
possible to standardize but it still
very fun interesting content it goes on
to say it's nice to see that larger
channels like healthy tea do something
with SFF Elvia rarely but Jen gave up on
it altogether I somewhat understand why
but I'm disappointed well okay so first
of all our policy of things I don't have
more than 30 employees like Linus and so
what we do we I don't ever want to grow
to that size either so what we do is we
focus
doing a few things really well and if I
can't do it really well if I can't make
some of the best content about that
particular product category then I don't
do it and I know that I fully understand
why you would like to see that and I
agree that it would be nice to provide
but we're stretched so thin with what we
do right now
and we've also you have to remember we
have a video upload allowance we're more
than one video per day it's not really
sustainable because youtube doesn't
really reward you for it you end up
splitting your audience so there's a lot
of logistical challenges there where if
we're kind of at the max already or very
close to it then something else has to
go and in this instance we've just added
cooler testing back in finally I don't
know if the videos are up yet when this
goes up but they're done so we've got
cooler testing and we have cooler
reviews back and that took six months of
refinement over three years of data that
we had we refined it for six months and
you know that's it's not easy so if I
can't do it and provide one of the best
sources for that component I don't and
sorry but that's just that's the way it
is let's see I'm gonna take this one
more last one walking per Moi's
I know you guys aren't planning to be as
big as something like alum G but ideally
how many employees would be ideal for
you love the videos keep it up thank you
really interesting question I should
probably do this in more depth on the
secondary channel or something but I'll
do a bit here I don't want to become a
big Empire in the way that Linus has
done it I really like what Linus has
done I respect it I'm regularly in all
of their work at the studio how big it's
become and it's it's amazing however I
don't want to be in his position and I
am glad that he's willing to do it
because I don't want to so this is not
about you know a comment about Linus is
coming about what do I want to do so
that was a question so even though I
think what he's done is amazing I would
you know I've spoken with Linus
personally in a lot of detail
just off-camera about the process of I
think I asked him most recently when I
visited him I said at what point does it
get easier I said to Linus you know I
was wrong I thought that hiring people
all these years I thought hiring people
would make it easier but I'm working
more hours than ever I'm working harder
than ever I'm trying to I have to work
harder because now I've got people who
need to get paid and if they if I don't
have work for them they need to find it
somewhere else so and you don't want to
lose good talent just because you don't
have enough work so the challenge that
I've run into over the last year
especially is one of trying to figure
out how do I produce more content and
Patrick has been involved in this deeply
too so really it's at this point is how
do we Patrick and I produce enough
content to saturate the video production
schedule so that everyone's got enough
hours for the week and that alone is
such an enormous amount of stress and
just I mean it's constantly shuffling
schedules and moving stuff around
cutting corners sometimes when you don't
want to it's hard I don't want to scale
that problem up right now I've got I
figured it out I've got a pretty good
handle on it as long as I can work the
hours I'm doing then we're good at some
point I'd probably would want to bring
on another content production side
someone who could do some of the writing
but not yet so the question of how do
you scale the other thing that's kind of
challenging for me too is I've always
been a min/max er with RTS is what I
grew up on strategy games I was really
competitive in them it was top-ranked
time a couple of them for a while and
that follows through with my business
approach where it's weird cuz like I
could hire another person to help and
take some of that workload the content
production workload from me but then
there's two things it's immediately you
start thinking about okay I'm gonna have
an extra let's say eight hours free per
week or whatever because I won't have to
do this thing so what does that it what
can I do with that eight hours instead
of like oh I can stop I can relax it's
what can I do instead so it's kind of
hard to willingly you know
take a cut out of your profit to reduce
your own workload when you're used to
working the hours that I've done so I
don't anyway to answer the question of
how big I think I'd probably go for I
like where we are now I'd like some more
consistent hours for the team on the
video side we're working towards that
Patrick and I have basically in lieu of
getting another person and we've decided
we're just gonna automate the hell out
of everything and so I'd like to even
out the hours there and then I'd like to
add someone on the ad management and
sales side we have Ryan Greenberg you've
seen his name on some things in the past
he's done some of our Market Analysis
stuff he handles a lot of the ad
reporting for me actually all of it
these days so he interacts with the
advertisers he sends them reports and
deals with that for me but I'm still
involved in some of that stuff like
negotiations in sales and I'd like to
stop wanted to have an editorial barrier
and to because I don't want to do that
it's not interesting to me I'd rather
spend the time doing testing and every
time I get back to testing in the
testing room right there in the lab it
feels so good to work in that room
surrounded with like all the white noise
of computers and all the challenges and
cool problems you have to solve but I
don't get to do it as much as I'd like
because I'm I'm stuck in the other end
during production like writing and
making sure I can manage the tasks so
that I can get on camera in time to make
sure
Keegan can do this part of the video and
Josh can do that part of the video and
Andrew can let's do this part of the
video so what I'd like to do is add I
think someone on like get Ryan doing
more of the ad stuff for me sitting as a
barrier between me and the advertisers
and then maybe one person on content
production and I've got someone in mind
but we're not there yet so - I think
that's what I'm what I'm looking at so
what that put us up to two three four
five that'd be about seven people plus
the contract side of things so we've got
Eric Hamilton who is an excellent news
writer he does our news rant roundups
and yes we'd be at seven eight plus
contractor basically I don't want a
scale beyond that and rather than having
to hire Linus
his answer to my question doesn't get
easier was yes ten employees that's when
it gets easier I don't want to get there
so instead of doing that what we're
trying to do is Patrick and I work
really hard at just automating the hell
out of every single thing to the extent
that people haven't really to our
knowledge done before in the space and
we're just trying to replace the need
for more people with that because it's
hard enough to manage the company as is
and I don't want to sacrifice quality so
if we keep it about this size plus let's
say max not even - just plus potentially
three then that I think I'm gonna call
it there if I can unless we start
expanding into more channels at which
point maybe I'd hire out for that like
hosting but that'd be different content
so my goal is to keep the content as it
is today I can feel some days my grasp
slipping on my ability to hone the
technical side of it and so right now I
have the ability to contact everyone say
hey guys sorry let me push back three
hours sorry to do it to you but we just
gotta film later today so I can get it
done properly and I worry that if we
hired too many then it would go from
that to being well screw it we just got
a film and I don't want to be there so
I'm really happy with where we are now
but we could use maybe a couple more
that's it for this one thanks for
watching subscribe for more go to the GN
Steve side channel for a bonus public
episode or go to patreon.com/scishow
gamers nexus tops out there as well I'll
see you all next time